title: Learning the Agent Development Kit
description: 
    Recently, Google released an Agent Development Kit (ADK) to assist
    developers when creating agentic generative AI applications. Here I kick the
    tires on the ADK to see what it's all about.
slug: google-agent-development-kit-adk
state: published
date: 2025-05-30
tags:
- Python
- ADK
- GenAI
- Colab

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Recently, Google released an [Agent Development Kit (ADK)][adk], a new framework
to help developers create "agentic" generative AI applications quickly. My
curiosity piqued, I had to try it out. The question I yearn to answer: can the
ADK help me to create a Google Cloud code sample?

You can see [the results of my efforts here][my-adk-repo]. I'm using the
[quickstart][quickstart] to begin and then trying to build my own application
that uses a [Runner][runner] to generate a code sample.

Let's see how this goes!

## First things first: a quickstart

+ I love that this quickstart begins by showing me what the project directory
  for my code should look like. I appreciate that! (I'm a sucker for good
  documentation.)

+ It's interesting--and useful--that the ADK includes both a [CLI][adk-cli] and
  [web UI][adk-web-ui] to help me learn the platform. The quickstart uses the
  the CLI to run the agent that I'm building.

+ The tutorial says to use `echo` to write code in the `__init__.py` file. This 
  seems like an odd choice. There's a note telling Windows users to just open 
  up the file in an IDE and edit there, which is what I would do anyway. So I'll
  just do that ...

+ I attempted to get the weather in Athens, Greece, but the
  agent tells me that Athens is not available. Huh. The docs say to try
  Paris or New York City. I'll try those next. Looking closer at the code,
  the code is using a hardcoded list of cities rather than a live service.
  That makes sense. It looks like I need to ask for _exactly_ "new york" to
  get a response.

My successful attempt to get the weather in "new york" is shown in the
following snippet.

```sh
adk run quickstart
Log setup complete: /var/folders/zb/410jc5c93md11jlkxd6hpm0w00b1dc/T/agents_log/agent.20250529_164324.log
To access latest log: tail -F /var/folders/zb/410jc5c93md11jlkxd6hpm0w00b1dc/T/agents_log/agent.latest.log
Running agent weather_time_agent, type exit to exit.
[user]: what is the weather in new york?
[weather_time_agent]: OK. The weather in New York is sunny with a temperature of 25 degrees Celsius (77 degrees Fahrenheit).

[user]: Thank you!
[weather_time_agent]: You're welcome! Is there anything else I can help you with?

[user]: Nope! I'm going to exit now
[weather_time_agent]: Goodbye!

[user]: exit

```
<figure><i>Figure 1. The ADK quickstart in action. Yes, I believe in being kind
to our AI friends.</i></figure><br/>

After completing the quickstart, I see that there is a more complex
[multi-agent team tutorial][multi-agent]. The tutorial has a handy
[Colab notebook][adk-colab] that I could try.

However, I'm on a mission to create a code sample, so I'll skip the multi-agent
tutorial for now.

## Next steps: building a runner-based agent

Very broadly, I want to create a multi-agent system that uses tools to
compose a Google Cloud code sample. I intend to use a [RAG][rag] technique
to fetch proto files before I generate the sample; that's one tool. Then, I
want to have whatever code is generated by the system to be evaluated using
[LLM-as-a-judge][llm-judge]; that's the second tool. This overall system 
itself will be my orchestration agent, executed by the runner.

With that in mind, I'll write a little mini-spec here to help guide my work.

+ **Objective**: Write a Node.js code sample that gets a secret from Google Cloud
  Secret Manager.
+ **Components**:
  1.  **Tool #1.** Download the Secret Manager proto files from GitHub. These files
      will be used as grounding for the LLM when it writes the code samples.
      Getting the proto files will be my first tool. The real-world version of
      this tool would fetch the files from a GitHub repo; however, I'm going
      to just return a canned response for now.
  2.  **Tool #2.** Generate a new Node.js code sample given the user prompt and the
      grounding context.
  3.  **Tool #3.** Evaluate the quality of the code sample. If the quality is low,
      then return to step #2. This evaluation step will be my second tool.
      Similar to the first tool, I'm going to return a canned response for now.
  4.  **Agents.** Create agents for each tool. Reading the docs, it looks like
      the pattern for this type of application is to have a root agent that
      handles orchestration and a series of tool-specific agents.

      + The root agent will be executed in a `Runner`, that manages events and
        session data for the orchestration agent.
      + The root agent itself will need to be an instance of either
        [`SequentialAgent`][sequential-agent] or [`LoopAgent`][loop-agent]. I'm
        going to use a `SequentialAgent`, for now, to simply test the
        orchestration.


With these in mind, let me see how well & how quickly I can achieve my goal.





[adk]: https://google.github.io/adk-docs/
[adk-colab]: https://colab.research.google.com/github/google/adk-docs/blob/main/examples/python/tutorial/agent_team/adk_tutorial.ipynb
[adk-cli]: https://google.github.io/adk-docs/cli/
[adk-web-ui]: https://google.github.io/adk-docs/ui/
[llm-judge]: https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.05685
[loop-agent]: https://google.github.io/adk-docs/agents/workflow-agents/loop-agents/
[multi-agent]: https://google.github.io/adk-docs/tutorials/agent-team/
[my-adk-repo]: https://github.com/telpirion/LearningADK
[quickstart]: https://google.github.io/adk-docs/get-started/quickstart/
[rag]: https://cloud.google.com/use-cases/retrieval-augmented-generation?hl=en
[runner]: https://google.github.io/adk-docs/api-reference/python/google-adk.html#google.adk.runners.Runner
[sequential-agent]: https://google.github.io/adk-docs/agents/workflow-agents/sequential-agents/
